This panel focuses on the ways in which North Korea has related to the world from the 1950s to the present. It considers North Korea s history and culture in the transnational context. Although North Korea is often considered to be a state isolated from the rest of the world, in its 70-year history it has had relationships with other countries in its own ways. Recent studies on North Korea have sought to situate North Korea within the world by using interdisciplinary approaches. This panel aims to contribute to this recent perspective. Concentrating on the interaction between North Korea and the world, each presenter in this panel unpacks the less-illuminated history of North Korea from the transnational perspective. Elli Kim explores the agency of North Korean intellectuals within the global socialist political structure during the 1950s and 1960s. Focusing on the global circuit of technology, Eunsung Cho examines the process by which the so-called  Juche fiber,  vinalon, came into existence from the colonial period to the 1960s. Thomas Stock discusses the social impact of the World Festival of Youth and Students, which was held in Pyongyang in 1989, in particular drawing from the relevant materials from East Germany. Lastly, Henri Feron probes North Korea s way of engaging the world by comparing North Korean and Chinese legal reforms relating to foreign investment. 
Coming Soon 
Although U.S. religious and military institutions played an important role in bringing Western music to Korea beginning in the early twentieth century, West Germany s influence grew significantly since the 1970s, particularly on South Korea s new music scene. West Germany s art music scene, a major center of modernism since the onset of the Cold War, captured the imagination of a number of South Korean composers who aspired to write in  current  styles. West Germany also conducted cultural diplomacy, including support for musical activities, mirroring the economic aid Germany was providing to Korea during the Cold War. In exploring these under-studied connections, this panel raises questions of cultural exchange and cultural politics, and probes the nexus of cosmopolitanism, nationalism, and exoticism. The first paper examines contours of the Goethe-Institut s cultural diplomacy and its role in shaping South Korea s contemporary music scene. The next two papers shed new light on Isang Yun, an iconic exponent of Germany-Korea exchange whose success in Germany made him an admired figure among young Korean artists despite his publicized run-ins with the South Korean dictatorship. The first of these investigates Koreans  views of Yun and his work during the period of his exilic residence in Germany; the second explores the conditions that fed Yun s  hybrid  music by examining cultural hierarchies in Germany and Korea around the time of his intercontinental move. The panel s final paper looks at some of the ways German composers within the German-Korean musical network have interpreted  Korean  elements in their compositions over the years. 
The book comes into being and circulates as a physical entity within anticipated and real historical reading practices. This panel aims to stimulate discussions regarding the various ways in which people had access to and made use of books during the Choson period (1392-1910), shedding light on the relatively little-explored mediating role of utterance and invocation of speech sounds in the act of reading. Seeing the book as a site where visual and aural inscription intersects, Young Kyun Oh studies books housing written script and illustrations to suggest that reading involved processes of decipherment within which hearable language always plays a crucial role. Kyung-hee Rho examines metal type publishing in the 17th and 18th centuries to discuss how and why the elites used their social ranks and networks to bring into service state-owned metal type resources, which helped satiate their desire to possess copies of books circulating in the contemporary Ming book market. Delving into the cultural impact of fiction, as a newfangled constituent of vocalized books, on late-Choson narrative writing, Si Nae Park locates the rise of the vernacular story (yadam) in connection with the circulation of fiction through the human voice and literary criticism on Chinese vernacular fiction. Jiwon Shin focuses on Cho Susam s (1762-1849) literary portrayals of book peddling and oral recitation of fiction in urban Seoul to trace how Cho creatively deployed conventional literary forms (e.g., Daoist hagiography and the regulated verse form of quatrain) to inscribe social memory. 
How might we understand the complex genealogy of the Right Wing in South Korea? The question is pertinent and timely, especially at the tactical level, for critical scholarship as well as political activism. Inspired by Kun-woo Kim s provocative new book Taehan Min guk (Architects of South Korea), the papers situate Korean Protestant thinkers, activists, and movements, from the 1910s to the present, in both domestic and world-historical contexts. In so doing, they complicate, challenge, and complement Kim s account of a different Protestant orthodoxy in the rise of Right Wing politics in Korean history. Focusing on Yun Ch i-ho, Henry Em points to the emergence of a bourgeois ethic in the 1910s and 1920s, as ideas and practices that sustain class hierarchies in South Korea. Kim Kun-woo presents a typology of multiple Protestantisms in colonial and post-liberation periods, each type associated with a different Protestant tradition outside of Korea. Ingu Hwang examines how the progressive wing of the Protestant church in the 1970s was able to appropriate human rights discourse as a language of resistance, transforming local pro-democracy struggles into global human rights activism. Myung-Sahm Suh presents an analysis of once progressive Christians who, starting in the late 1990s, came to form the liberal-reformist New Right, as sharing an antinomical unity with the Old Right. These papers show how South Korea s intellectual history becomes more understandable and properly world-historical by addressing Protestantisms and fissures within the Right Wing. 
South Koreans  political participation gained international attention within the past year as mass protests, a legislative vote, and a Constitutional Court decision led to the president s impeachment for the first time in the nation s history. How do South Koreans mobilize for rights and exercise their voice in times of political turmoil? What are the conditions that facilitate civic and political engagement in South Korea? This panel brings together papers that consider the recent institutional and extra-institutional developments in Korean politics within the context of broader trends in patterns of political participation. From the perspectives of history, sociology, media and communication, and political science, this panel will explore the origins, evolution, and consequences of different types of political participation and the institutions that structure them in Korea. The papers examine the generational differences in political attitudes and behavior in post-transition South Korea (Cho), legal mobilization as a form of political participation (Arrington), progressive coalition-building in South Korea (Kim & Lee), and the role of South Korean media in the impeachment of former president Park Geun-hye (Seo). Taken together, these papers contribute original research and insights to current academic and policy debates on democratic consolidation and the prospects for political reform in South Korea. 
This panel looks into various social sites that reclaim the meaning and force of surplus lives in contemporary South Korea. As a  reserve army of labor  in capitalist systems and a political concern of the modern state, surplus population has appeared in varying forms over the course of Korea s modernization. From colonial subalterns to those excluded from economic development under military dictatorship, their bodies in reserve have been deemed at once exploitable and disposable. However, as South Korea is rapidly shifting to a post-industrial, technologically advanced, neoliberal society, those who feel superfluous are not only increasing, but also taking new shapes and creating hitherto non-existent networks. By shedding light on practices that those identified as invalid, anomalous, and expendable engage in, this panel inquires into how their practices operate to tackle the conditions that reproduce dispensable lives. In addressing the struggles of Samsung semiconductor plant workers with terminal diseases, Kim attends to their strategy of shaming, particularly the use of disabled bodies. Park traces a new praxis of community in the movement to discover the truth about the Sew l ferry disaster, noting the movement has challenged normative definitions of  victim  and  death.  Yoon delves into the remnants of life-making in the South Korean pet-cloning industry, as she locates the production of extra animals within the transnational context of biocapitalism and bioethics. Concerned with the ingy  (surplus) sensibilities of the digital generation, Yi s analysis of webtoons about war and espionage situates this new medium within the history of Korean War aesthetics. 
As both a political theory and a transnational movement, anarchism surged across the world as one of the most influential ideological formations in the early twentieth century, but its historical memory faded in later decades amid the rise of communism and the Cold War. The recuperation of its history is an important endeavor within East Asian studies, as it promises to illuminate many of the events and the cultural dynamics that shaped the region s incipient modernity. This panel seeks to re-examine the history of Korean anarchism and its legacies from a transnational perspective that goes beyond the limits of traditional nationalist historiography. Dongyoun Hwang excavate the educational and institutional heritage of anarchism in East Asia, tracing the historical connections between the Liming Advanced Middle School in modern China and its two contemporary successors, the Liming Vocational University in China and the Anui Middle School in South Korea. Sunyoung Park reassesses the anarchist culture of colonial Korea under the three headings of popular revolution, cooperatism, and radical ecology, suggesting the ways in which this new approach expands and integrates that of previously established nationalist criticism. Finally, Albert Park addresses anarchism as a fundamental influence over contemporary South Korean environmentalist groups, locating their origins in the countercultural farming communities and cooperatives that appeared in response to developmentalism and state capitalism. The panel as a whole aims to contribute to advancing scholarship on Korean anarchism in its geographical, ideological, and cultural complexity, all the while also reminding us of its continuing relevance. 
Addressing negotiation as the fundamental condition defining the spatiality of contemporary Korea, this panel explores how various agents of power claim everyday space, and how their claims bring forth a terrain that operates beyond a simple binary between top-down and bottom-up forces. Who has the power to determine by whom and in what way Korean spaces are used? How do various actors assert their control over, or make relationships with, a space and its mediatized depictions? The papers reveal the layered histories and scarcity of space, and consequently how space is laden with meaning that is constantly being contested politically and aesthetically. All four papers demonstrate complex and creative responses to claims made over or about protest, public, mediatized, and imagined spaces invested with deep meaning by residents, users, and viewers of those spaces.  Panelists introduce four negotiations of contemporary Korean spaces, tied together by a discussant. Panelists: (1) address how Catholic protestors have used ritual in their protestsäóî transforming the space in a way that challenges government responses. (2) examine the mediatization and counter response to use of Gwanghwamun Square in the context of the presidential impeachment rallies shown in a vodka ad campaign. (3) demonstrate how artists, gentrified out of traditional arts districts, bring new energy to social movements and community activism as they claim and transform their new spaces. (4) investigate recent K-pop music videos shot in imagined Korean spaces that brand the music with visual images of Korea. 