The new Cambridge History of Japan takes up a range of thematic chapters that are new in historical and geographical scope for this genre. Contributors to the 20th-century volume share the challenge of conceptualizing their topics across the momentous political transformations from empire and war to postwar (global) integration up to the post-Fukushima present. What does Japan's historical experience look like if the usual state-centeredness is both sized up and broken down as part of wider global dynamics? This roundtable discussion is a crucial forum for contributors to compare their approaches and involve an audience of potential readers in establishing their metanarratives. Mark Metzler surveys INDUSTRIALIZATION as social and ecological process. The historic scaling up of material and energy flows within Japan transformed regional divisions of labor and widened Japan's ecological footprint. The developmental frontier Japan had already reached by the 1930s suggests a new reading of the great slowing of recent decades. Hiromi Mizuno examines AGRARIAN POPULATION's dynamic mobility (colonization, emigration, postwar land development), challenges the conventional chronology, and proposes a new narrative for Japanese industrialization and  development of the 20th century. Jordan Sand explores how the chronology of the CITY and of the nation-state overlap and diverge. The history of industrial-era cities may appear inseparable from the state when we focus on economic growth, yet urban culture and lifestyles before the 1970s distanced cities from the rest of the country. Vera Mackie considers state regulation of GENDER AND SEXUALITY through important historical turning points related to the acquisition of suffrage for men and women, the gradual removal of restrictions on women's political activity, and the changing regimes of the management of population and family forms. Franziska Seraphim understands SOCIAL MOVEMENTS as sustained public protest against perceived systemic inequities that manifested with respect to territory and place, capitalist relations, social inclusion and exclusion, and the norms associated with  modernity and later  globalization. Edward Lincoln, as moderator, will add his insights in how to situate the BUBBLE ERA (1987-1991), which marked a crucial transition from a century of rapid industrialization to one of a mature economy beset with a wholly new set of issues and problems. 