Many often assume that popular culture reinforces conventional gender norms and hierarchies based on a top-down  ideological template  (Lewis 1990), or media producers  ideological assumptions on audience s taste. This panel explores gender not only as a property of individuals but also as a situational accomplishment that demonstrates the social dynamics of South Korea, such as gender as it intersects with race, class, and sexuality. Expanding the idea of  doing gender  by West and Zimmerman (1987), all four presentations collectively discusses how television and musical acts  perform gender  in both conventional and unconventional ways in the arena of Korean popular culture. Stephanie Choi discusses subverted gender hierarchies between male singers as service workers and female fans as consumers who purchase intimacy from the singers. Michelle Ho s case study on K-pop singer Amber Liu negotiates the unsettling heteronormative and homosocial spaces in the K-pop industry redefined by her androgynous appearance. Kendra Van Nyhuis investigates intersectional identities and on- and off-stage representations of women from different cultural backgrounds in the Korean underground rock scene. Bonnie Tilland focuses on media depictions of urban-rural tensions in Korea, especially parenting and gender roles within the family as a site of domestic tourism discourse. Looking at performance as a site of social practice, this panel is timely for demonstrating diverse case studies in which performers reinforce, subvert, and negotiate gender dynamics in transcultural South Korea. 
This panel focuses on the ways in which North Korea has related to the world from the 1950s to the present. It considers North Korea s history and culture in the transnational context. Although North Korea is often considered to be a state isolated from the rest of the world, in its 70-year history it has had relationships with other countries in its own ways. Recent studies on North Korea have sought to situate North Korea within the world by using interdisciplinary approaches. This panel aims to contribute to this recent perspective. Concentrating on the interaction between North Korea and the world, each presenter in this panel unpacks the less-illuminated history of North Korea from the transnational perspective. Elli Kim explores the agency of North Korean intellectuals within the global socialist political structure during the 1950s and 1960s. Focusing on the global circuit of technology, Eunsung Cho examines the process by which the so-called  Juche fiber,  vinalon, came into existence from the colonial period to the 1960s. Thomas Stock discusses the social impact of the World Festival of Youth and Students, which was held in Pyongyang in 1989, in particular drawing from the relevant materials from East Germany. Lastly, Henri Feron probes North Korea s way of engaging the world by comparing North Korean and Chinese legal reforms relating to foreign investment. 
Coming Soon 
Although U.S. religious and military institutions played an important role in bringing Western music to Korea beginning in the early twentieth century, West Germany s influence grew significantly since the 1970s, particularly on South Korea s new music scene. West Germany s art music scene, a major center of modernism since the onset of the Cold War, captured the imagination of a number of South Korean composers who aspired to write in  current  styles. West Germany also conducted cultural diplomacy, including support for musical activities, mirroring the economic aid Germany was providing to Korea during the Cold War. In exploring these under-studied connections, this panel raises questions of cultural exchange and cultural politics, and probes the nexus of cosmopolitanism, nationalism, and exoticism. The first paper examines contours of the Goethe-Institut s cultural diplomacy and its role in shaping South Korea s contemporary music scene. The next two papers shed new light on Isang Yun, an iconic exponent of Germany-Korea exchange whose success in Germany made him an admired figure among young Korean artists despite his publicized run-ins with the South Korean dictatorship. The first of these investigates Koreans  views of Yun and his work during the period of his exilic residence in Germany; the second explores the conditions that fed Yun s  hybrid  music by examining cultural hierarchies in Germany and Korea around the time of his intercontinental move. The panel s final paper looks at some of the ways German composers within the German-Korean musical network have interpreted  Korean  elements in their compositions over the years. 
The book comes into being and circulates as a physical entity within anticipated and real historical reading practices. This panel aims to stimulate discussions regarding the various ways in which people had access to and made use of books during the Choson period (1392-1910), shedding light on the relatively little-explored mediating role of utterance and invocation of speech sounds in the act of reading. Seeing the book as a site where visual and aural inscription intersects, Young Kyun Oh studies books housing written script and illustrations to suggest that reading involved processes of decipherment within which hearable language always plays a crucial role. Kyung-hee Rho examines metal type publishing in the 17th and 18th centuries to discuss how and why the elites used their social ranks and networks to bring into service state-owned metal type resources, which helped satiate their desire to possess copies of books circulating in the contemporary Ming book market. Delving into the cultural impact of fiction, as a newfangled constituent of vocalized books, on late-Choson narrative writing, Si Nae Park locates the rise of the vernacular story (yadam) in connection with the circulation of fiction through the human voice and literary criticism on Chinese vernacular fiction. Jiwon Shin focuses on Cho Susam s (1762-1849) literary portrayals of book peddling and oral recitation of fiction in urban Seoul to trace how Cho creatively deployed conventional literary forms (e.g., Daoist hagiography and the regulated verse form of quatrain) to inscribe social memory. 
How might we understand the complex genealogy of the Right Wing in South Korea? The question is pertinent and timely, especially at the tactical level, for critical scholarship as well as political activism. Inspired by Kun-woo Kim s provocative new book Taehan Min guk (Architects of South Korea), the papers situate Korean Protestant thinkers, activists, and movements, from the 1910s to the present, in both domestic and world-historical contexts. In so doing, they complicate, challenge, and complement Kim s account of a different Protestant orthodoxy in the rise of Right Wing politics in Korean history. Focusing on Yun Ch i-ho, Henry Em points to the emergence of a bourgeois ethic in the 1910s and 1920s, as ideas and practices that sustain class hierarchies in South Korea. Kim Kun-woo presents a typology of multiple Protestantisms in colonial and post-liberation periods, each type associated with a different Protestant tradition outside of Korea. Ingu Hwang examines how the progressive wing of the Protestant church in the 1970s was able to appropriate human rights discourse as a language of resistance, transforming local pro-democracy struggles into global human rights activism. Myung-Sahm Suh presents an analysis of once progressive Christians who, starting in the late 1990s, came to form the liberal-reformist New Right, as sharing an antinomical unity with the Old Right. These papers show how South Korea s intellectual history becomes more understandable and properly world-historical by addressing Protestantisms and fissures within the Right Wing. 
South Koreans  political participation gained international attention within the past year as mass protests, a legislative vote, and a Constitutional Court decision led to the president s impeachment for the first time in the nation s history. How do South Koreans mobilize for rights and exercise their voice in times of political turmoil? What are the conditions that facilitate civic and political engagement in South Korea? This panel brings together papers that consider the recent institutional and extra-institutional developments in Korean politics within the context of broader trends in patterns of political participation. From the perspectives of history, sociology, media and communication, and political science, this panel will explore the origins, evolution, and consequences of different types of political participation and the institutions that structure them in Korea. The papers examine the generational differences in political attitudes and behavior in post-transition South Korea (Cho), legal mobilization as a form of political participation (Arrington), progressive coalition-building in South Korea (Kim & Lee), and the role of South Korean media in the impeachment of former president Park Geun-hye (Seo). Taken together, these papers contribute original research and insights to current academic and policy debates on democratic consolidation and the prospects for political reform in South Korea. 
This panel looks into various social sites that reclaim the meaning and force of surplus lives in contemporary South Korea. As a  reserve army of labor  in capitalist systems and a political concern of the modern state, surplus population has appeared in varying forms over the course of Korea s modernization. From colonial subalterns to those excluded from economic development under military dictatorship, their bodies in reserve have been deemed at once exploitable and disposable. However, as South Korea is rapidly shifting to a post-industrial, technologically advanced, neoliberal society, those who feel superfluous are not only increasing, but also taking new shapes and creating hitherto non-existent networks. By shedding light on practices that those identified as invalid, anomalous, and expendable engage in, this panel inquires into how their practices operate to tackle the conditions that reproduce dispensable lives. In addressing the struggles of Samsung semiconductor plant workers with terminal diseases, Kim attends to their strategy of shaming, particularly the use of disabled bodies. Park traces a new praxis of community in the movement to discover the truth about the Sew l ferry disaster, noting the movement has challenged normative definitions of  victim  and  death.  Yoon delves into the remnants of life-making in the South Korean pet-cloning industry, as she locates the production of extra animals within the transnational context of biocapitalism and bioethics. Concerned with the ingy  (surplus) sensibilities of the digital generation, Yi s analysis of webtoons about war and espionage situates this new medium within the history of Korean War aesthetics. 
As both a political theory and a transnational movement, anarchism surged across the world as one of the most influential ideological formations in the early twentieth century, but its historical memory faded in later decades amid the rise of communism and the Cold War. The recuperation of its history is an important endeavor within East Asian studies, as it promises to illuminate many of the events and the cultural dynamics that shaped the region s incipient modernity. This panel seeks to re-examine the history of Korean anarchism and its legacies from a transnational perspective that goes beyond the limits of traditional nationalist historiography. Dongyoun Hwang excavate the educational and institutional heritage of anarchism in East Asia, tracing the historical connections between the Liming Advanced Middle School in modern China and its two contemporary successors, the Liming Vocational University in China and the Anui Middle School in South Korea. Sunyoung Park reassesses the anarchist culture of colonial Korea under the three headings of popular revolution, cooperatism, and radical ecology, suggesting the ways in which this new approach expands and integrates that of previously established nationalist criticism. Finally, Albert Park addresses anarchism as a fundamental influence over contemporary South Korean environmentalist groups, locating their origins in the countercultural farming communities and cooperatives that appeared in response to developmentalism and state capitalism. The panel as a whole aims to contribute to advancing scholarship on Korean anarchism in its geographical, ideological, and cultural complexity, all the while also reminding us of its continuing relevance. 
Addressing negotiation as the fundamental condition defining the spatiality of contemporary Korea, this panel explores how various agents of power claim everyday space, and how their claims bring forth a terrain that operates beyond a simple binary between top-down and bottom-up forces. Who has the power to determine by whom and in what way Korean spaces are used? How do various actors assert their control over, or make relationships with, a space and its mediatized depictions? The papers reveal the layered histories and scarcity of space, and consequently how space is laden with meaning that is constantly being contested politically and aesthetically. All four papers demonstrate complex and creative responses to claims made over or about protest, public, mediatized, and imagined spaces invested with deep meaning by residents, users, and viewers of those spaces.  Panelists introduce four negotiations of contemporary Korean spaces, tied together by a discussant. Panelists: (1) address how Catholic protestors have used ritual in their protestsäóî transforming the space in a way that challenges government responses. (2) examine the mediatization and counter response to use of Gwanghwamun Square in the context of the presidential impeachment rallies shown in a vodka ad campaign. (3) demonstrate how artists, gentrified out of traditional arts districts, bring new energy to social movements and community activism as they claim and transform their new spaces. (4) investigate recent K-pop music videos shot in imagined Korean spaces that brand the music with visual images of Korea. 
This panel examines the specific contributions of sports in modern Korea during its transformation from colonial to the Cold War systems. After sports were introduced to Korea as modern inventions in its modernizing processes, they were actively and widely practised not only as a tool of governing and disciplining people but also as an arena of competition and resistance. The aim of this panel is to explore both the continuity and rupture of Korean society from the imperial/colonial to the Cold War regimes through the lens of sports, which we refer to as a sporting regime in Korea.  Here, a sporting regime is examined in both dimensions of governmentality and structures of feeling that the colonial and Cold War systems strived to build through sports. The ways in which a sporting regime was constructed could be traced in the examination of sports institutions, organization, events, key figures and their philosophy, as well as representation, discourses, and reportages of sports. A sporting regime contributes to propagating norms such as discipline, perseverance, obedience, and sacrifice, as well as to providing rationales for unification through power/violence, priority to national interests, and survival of the fittest. The consideration of a sporting regime in Korea provides clues of unveiling a structural homology of the imperial/colonial and Cold War regimes in East Asia. Furthermore, this theme is timely with understanding the regional pursuit of  soft power  through sports as the 2018 Pyeongchang, 2020 Tokyo and 2022 Beijing Olympics will be held in the next few years.   
Although protest culture is nothing new in modern Korea, the 2016/17 Candlelight Protests, through which the history of democratic participation in Korea as well as in the world indelibly changed, were unprecedented in scope and outcome. These rallies not only resulted in the impeachment and removal of President Park Geun-hye, but more importantly they demonstrated the remarkable growth of civil society and reaffirmed the power of art to engage politics, mobilize people, and bring fulfillment. Our panel examines this event through the lens of cultural production. In particular, we explore the ways writers, artists, photographers, filmmakers, and other actors were involved in making a new culture of protest, which both built upon and diverged from previous democratic movements in Korea. Broadly, we explore the relationship between political protest and art to show not only that the protests advanced art, but how art became the basis of a political protest emerging from the people themselves. Each panelist explores a different medium to consider the multimedia effect of the Candlelight Protests. Young-Pyo Seo begins with an interpretive overview of the Candlelight Protests  origins, achievements, and shortfalls. Jung-hwan Cheon examines new media s role in generating new subjectivities and a theoretical understanding of cultural politics. Mai Inaba surveys the visual art produced at and for the Protests in the context of the longer history of the Minjung (People s) Art Movement. And Woohyung Chon analyzes two documentary films on the protests that capture the emergence of multiple subjectivities as well as a new political aesthetics. 
The study of Korea s early history (trad., 57 BCE-935 CE) is intellectually stimulating with advances made in many fields, but it is also fraught with controversy.  This panel deals with two interrelated, overarching issues that form the basis of both scholarly and popular debate about Korean antiquity: (1) archeological and epigraphic sources increasingly indicate problems with the narrative sources of early Korean history compiled in the Kory  period (918-1392); and (2) political and cultural factors in the contemporary Korean states make certain interpretations of the past very sensitive.  These matters have caused some academics to bind themselves to certain flawed interpretations of the past and non-specialists to advance outlandish, unsupportable, pseudohistorical views of a  grand  antiquity in Korea.  Critical analysis of the literary sources, especially the Samguk sagi (History of the Three Kingdoms), is one of the core issues.  In this panel,  The Altaic Fallacy and Dongyi Chauvinism  traces the origins of Korean pseudohistory back to the colonial experience and the search for non-Chinese sources of Korean culture.   An Intolerable Antiquity  demonstrates how interpretations of the remote past that have gained currency over the decades have been shaped by certain political and cultural sensitivities.   Beginnings & Endings  reveals how early Chinese historiographical sources provide strong evidence that the Samguk sagi s presentation of the boundaries between the early Korean states and their chronologies is untenable.  Making and Remaking Silla Origins  shows that the narratives found in the sources advance a late vision of early Silla. 
The threat of North Korea to the political stability of the Asia region looms larger than ever. Much extant scholarship on North Korea focuses on macro-level issues of international security or regime diffusion. In contrast, this panel brings the analysis down to the micro-level, examining what actually happens to North Koreans who have defected to South Korea. What kinds of identity struggles do refugees face in a putatively co-national, co-ethnic environment? How do those tensions affect their views of democracy, patterns of political participation, and trajectories of social integration? Such questions are consequential for designing effective policies for resettlement and securing democratic stability. Yet relatively little is known of this dimension of refugees. This panel brings together U.S. and international scholars who have collected rare data and use a variety of methodological approaches ranging from experiments to narrative interviews to shed light on this understudied topic. The papers identify invisible discrimination against the refugees (Kim and Lee), show the diversity of anti-North Korea sentiment among refugees (Green), explore how authoritarian socialization affects the national identity of refugees vis-a-vis South Koreans (Denney), and find a strong communitarian approach to how refugees build attachment to democracy (Hur). Together, these papers question the unilateral and heavily contractual nature of current resettlement policies toward North Korean refugees in South Korea, with implications that extend to other receiving democracies. 
Coming soon 
Using multi-disciplinary research, this panel explores how North Koreans interact and persist within the Kim family regime s oppressive political system. From attending mass rallies to the policing of their bodies, daily negotiations and struggles with North Korean ideology inform and shape the lives of average North Koreans. Dima Mironenko s paper on North Korean bio-power traces the linkage between sexual immorality and political disloyalty within the nascent North Korean state in the 1950s and 1960s. In her paper on North Korean refugees, Sheena Greitens examines the radically different ideological environments of capitalism and North Korean-style socialism through the individual lives of defectors. This panel also investigates the tools and devices of the North Korean government in mobilizing and influencing its people on an everyday basis. For example, Meredith Shaw examines state-produced fiction published during the Kim Jong Un era in her paper and the shift to a canon that is more focused on leisure, modernity, and youthfulness. In his paper on domestic mobilization, Benjamin R. Young analyzes how the North Korean government used the Vietnam War and the visit of a foreign leader as ways to create an imagined community domestically. Overall, this panel aims to restore agency to the North Korean people as important players within the North Korean system and examines the degree to which the state responds to internal and external conditions. 
This panel examines how narratives of death and martyrdom both edifies and destabilizes religious and national identities in Korea. The common departure point for the four papers that comprise this panel is the observation that martyrdom often represents the ultimate sacrifice for both faith-based groups and nation-states. In this manner, martyrdom can serve as a link between these two communities. However, in the resulting nexus, the identities between these the communities often become blurred and contested. Focusing on Pope Francis s 2014 visit to the Republic of Korea, Franklin Rausch examines how Korean Catholics have mediated tensions between the memorialization of their martyrs with the fact that the Chosn government executed them for adopting an illicit religion. Paul Cha revisits a debate over the stewardship of Yanghwajin cemetery, the final home to many of the first-generation Protestant missionaries to Korea. Cha explores why Koreans have sought to appropriate this space for the purpose of articulating a  Korean  Christian identity. Jieun Han s paper examines the experience of two French nuns who were forced to participate in the infamous  Death March  during the Korean War. The testimony left behind by a surviving nun provides rich detail into how they understood their  religious  service for Koreans living both north and south of the 38th parallel. Finally, Haeseong Park s paper contrasts the lives of Ha Ransa and Esther Park during the colonial period. The death of these two  Christian  women demonstrates how the clash of religious and national identities could produce radically different subjectivities.         
Translators play the role of intercultural mediators and interpreters. They do not necessarily need to be faithful to a source, but are free to liberate the words of the original. What happens to a source, however, if translators prioritize the target culture, or have to gear translations towards fixed objectives under tightly constrained conditions? This panel ventures to analyze the rarely studied field of translation in North Korea, focusing on literature, philosophy and economics. Using an interdisciplinary approach, we aim to discern parallels and differences which have elsewise been overlooked. Instead of judging translations produced in North Korea, we strive to reveal their underlying structures and agendas. The panel will begin with a discussion of translations in the realm of literature, and then zoom out to the fields of philosophy and economics. While Dennis Wuerthner will discuss translations of the Korean New Tales of the Golden Turtle, Barbara Wall will compare South and North Korean translations of the Chinese Journey to the West. Vladimir Glomb and Sabine Burghart will then carry us over to the fields of philosophy and economics. While Vladimir Glomb will demonstrate how Korean Confucianism was rendered against the backdrop of Marxism-Leninism, Sabine Burghart will explain how capitalist concepts were translated into äóÖsocialist  language in North Korea. Having invited the Sinologist Rudolf Wagner, a scholar with an extraordinarily diversified expertise, as discussant, we aim to spark broader discussions about the specific practices and implications of translation in North Korea beyond the boundaries of Korean Studies. 
Seoul, the current capital of South Korea, has been the capital city of the Joseon Dynasty(1392-1910) for several centuries. Despite Seoul s long history and the presence of many historical buildings, many residents and policymakers feel that Seoul lacks a distinct urban image, or a landmark popularly associated with the city. This sense of identity crisis is partly due to the rapid urbanization and modernization process in the late 20th century.   Papers in this panel discuss urban design projects and preservation policies geared to promote Seoul s global image, and how such efforts reflect overlaps between different motives, including historic preservation and tourism. Strategies to imbue Seoul with a distinct image through architectural design have taken two directions. First one is reusing historical buildings rather than demolishing them. Efforts to preserve historical ambience of Seoul include restoring and reusing palace complexes dating from the Joseon Dynasty, as well as constructing traditional Korean houses called hanoks. The second strategy is to emphasize  speed-- fast exchanges of information by adopting ultra-modern design. Erecting contemporary-looking landmarks may not look historical at first, but it serves to emphasize the difference between traditional and modern features of city, thus illustrating "dynamic" qualities of Seoul. Yet it is questionable how this project can benefit the local economy or well-beings of the residents. Papers in this panel argue that limitations in the project of making Seoul "historical" arise due to the collusion of preservation and global tourism, which is exacerbated by the neglect to consider composite nature of architecture.  
This panel will examine dynamics of North Korean politics and society during the Cold War that are of particular significance for international affairs in Northeast Asia. All three presenters will challenge standard narratives on North Korean politics and society during the Cold War and two senior historians on North Korea, Bruce Cumings and Charles K. Armstrong, will join this panel as a chair and discussant.  The historian of the Korean People s Army Youngjun Kim will draw on North Korean documents of the National Archives Record Group 242 to examine social and cultural aspects of the Korean People s Army, an iconic institution of North Korean society, during 1945-1953. American historian James F. Person will draw on newly available materials from the archives of North Korea s former communist allies to challenge a standard narrative on factionalism in North Korea from 1945 to 1956. A defense expert Young-June Park will analyze a process of Pyongyang s nuclear development resulted in the change of military institution and doctrine and compare to that of Soviet Union and China respectively.      Bruce Cumings will serve as a chair of this panel and Charles K. Armstrong will serve as a discussant of this panel. Two senior historians will not only join a discussion of this panel but also spark floor questions and discussion regarding presenters  new interpretation on North Korean politics and society during the Cold War. Given the provocative nature of the evidence and arguments presented, we expect to conclude with an extensive and lively discussion. 