Many often assume that popular culture reinforces conventional gender norms and hierarchies based on a top-down  ideological template  (Lewis 1990), or media producers  ideological assumptions on audience s taste. This panel explores gender not only as a property of individuals but also as a situational accomplishment that demonstrates the social dynamics of South Korea, such as gender as it intersects with race, class, and sexuality. Expanding the idea of  doing gender  by West and Zimmerman (1987), all four presentations collectively discusses how television and musical acts  perform gender  in both conventional and unconventional ways in the arena of Korean popular culture. Stephanie Choi discusses subverted gender hierarchies between male singers as service workers and female fans as consumers who purchase intimacy from the singers. Michelle Ho s case study on K-pop singer Amber Liu negotiates the unsettling heteronormative and homosocial spaces in the K-pop industry redefined by her androgynous appearance. Kendra Van Nyhuis investigates intersectional identities and on- and off-stage representations of women from different cultural backgrounds in the Korean underground rock scene. Bonnie Tilland focuses on media depictions of urban-rural tensions in Korea, especially parenting and gender roles within the family as a site of domestic tourism discourse. Looking at performance as a site of social practice, this panel is timely for demonstrating diverse case studies in which performers reinforce, subvert, and negotiate gender dynamics in transcultural South Korea. 
This panel focuses on the ways in which North Korea has related to the world from the 1950s to the present. It considers North Korea s history and culture in the transnational context. Although North Korea is often considered to be a state isolated from the rest of the world, in its 70-year history it has had relationships with other countries in its own ways. Recent studies on North Korea have sought to situate North Korea within the world by using interdisciplinary approaches. This panel aims to contribute to this recent perspective. Concentrating on the interaction between North Korea and the world, each presenter in this panel unpacks the less-illuminated history of North Korea from the transnational perspective. Elli Kim explores the agency of North Korean intellectuals within the global socialist political structure during the 1950s and 1960s. Focusing on the global circuit of technology, Eunsung Cho examines the process by which the so-called  Juche fiber,  vinalon, came into existence from the colonial period to the 1960s. Thomas Stock discusses the social impact of the World Festival of Youth and Students, which was held in Pyongyang in 1989, in particular drawing from the relevant materials from East Germany. Lastly, Henri Feron probes North Korea s way of engaging the world by comparing North Korean and Chinese legal reforms relating to foreign investment. 
Coming Soon 